# `automancer` – a cellular automata simulator
`automancer` allows you to simulate systems of cellular automata using any
arbitrary ruleset you can think of. The library is simple (though not 
very well written), relatively easy to use, and is somewhat fast, and can handle
any kind of 2d uniform grid you can throw at it.

Rules are defined explicitly as functions, unlike [`cellular_automaton`][ca]
where they are defined as methods in classes, and [CellPyLib][cpl] where they
are defined by either Wolfram codes or functions. This is neither good nor bad,
it's just different. As an example, here I have defined a rule for a random
walk:
```python
def random_walk(state, neighborhood, point):
    x, y = point
    length = np.random.randint(0, len(neighborhood))
    new_spot = neighborhood[length]
    if state[x, y] == 1:
        new_state = [new_spot, 1]
        return [[point, 0], new_state]
    elif state[x, y] == 0:
        return [[point, 0]]
    else: 
        pass
```
This rule makes a cell move around randomly, which is similar to Brownian
motion. <!--TODO: Make a rulset for Conway's game of life.-->

![A cellular automoton moving around with the `random_walk` rule—note that this
animation was generated by outputting a bunch of PNG images and crunching them
together with ImageMagick. A more complete timestepping and animation method
will be added to the code.](img/animation.gif)

I wrote this primarily to get a better handle on cellular automata, because I
just think that they're cool—if you're going to be using something for your
research, I would suggest you just use [CellPyLib][cpl] instead of `automancer`,
since this program is not feature complete and it's also not really compatible
with most of the lingo used for cellular automata research.

You can read more about cellular automata on [*MathWorld*][mw] or
[*Wikipedia*][wiki].


[mw]: https://mathworld.wolfram.com/CellularAutomaton.html

[wiki]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cellular_automaton

## See also
+ [CellPyLib][cpl]
+ [cellular_automaton][ca]

[cpl]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cellular_automaton
[ca]:  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cellular_automaton
